# CS340-Client-Server-Development

***How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?***
I use in-line comments to identify and describe statements, functions, and classes. I also use proper naming conventions when initializing components of my code such as variables or data structures. Furthermore, I avoid hard-coding and try to write small classes and functions to make code easier to understand and therefore more maintainable. I also write testable code, whether it is conditional statements or output statements that assert a command is behaving as intended. I also follow line length and indent conventions. I also like to optimize code efficiency whenever possible.

Please see my CRUD.py module for an example. You will see in the initialization of the Crud class that I request users to pass in all credentials to make this module applicable to more than the assignment it was intended for. These passed in values are also used within the different small functions I have within the class for configuring data within a database using JSON formatting.

For further reference, please view my CrudTesting.ipynb that performs several test cases on CRUD.py. Also refer to DashTable.ipynb which uses the CRUD.py module to display an interactive Dash Datatable.




***How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?***
When encountering a problem, I first try to understand the problem. With coding discrepancies, this is validated through checks to narrow down what could be causing an issue. On an overview level, this is accomplished by researching the problem whether it be through analyzing user requirements, or seeing if someone faced a similar issue and how they solved it. 

I follow up by designing a solution. With coding discrepancies, I usually try to formulate or discuss with colleagues the changes that I feel would fix the problem. I try to look at how this solution would affect not only the single discrepancy, but the system as a whole. On an overview level, I develop an algorithm which breaks down step-by-step how I will go about solving an issue. I reference popular models that support this notion such as the Software Development Life Cycle documentation. 

I then apply the solution. Concurrently, I perform regression testing and analyze other components of the code to make sure my additions to the code aren’t negatively affecting previous components. I also throw in validation checks for the new code to make sure it is doing what is intended and what outcome it creates when interacting with the discrepancy. On an overview level, I accomplish this with incremental and iterative development. I “chunk” larger problems into smaller ones and refine parts of the code when appropriate. 

When the implementation of a solution is appearing successful, I heavily test the program using different testing strategies such as border cases with the mindset that I am trying to break the program. Tests go above unit and regression testing in this phase and can include other forms such as integration and system testing. 
With this mindset that I applied to the Grazioso Salvare project, I found I had to be innovative due to the obstacles I faced. I had to research more into Dash Documentation and how it performs commands that I have not yet learned. As stated before, incremental development and testing were key for me beginning to understand this new programming environment. 

I plan to use this experience to devise further strategies and plans for other assignments involving databases. An example of this includes testing my results in the data table with what exactly appears in the database when applying CRUD operations.


***What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?***
Computer Scientists make solutions to problems presented in the business, industry, scientific, and social spheres using software. Because technology is (and is continuing to be) a large impact on the success of these spheres, the notion to create software which will provide reliability, accuracy, compatibility, usability, and flexibility are almost a requirement in the modern era. From health equipment to databases to networks for communication, Computer Scientists have at least some kind of involvement in nearly every sphere. Without the use of this technology, we would be limited to the manual capabilities of what humans can achieve, which is an inferior combination compared to humans applying themselves to automating and creating programs that surpass the capabilities humans can currently perform. 

Let us provide an example with the current project at hand. My contributions of an interactive Datatable with supporting components such as a chart and map, which controls the transfer and visual depiction of data from the Database to this Datatable through the use of user input and my CRUD.py module are potentially helpful to Grazioso Salvare.  Employees of this company will be able to identify and analyze details of shelter animals registered within the Database. They can then use a map to track the animal and view their outcome details using variables such as latitude and longitude. They can further sort and filter the data presented on the Datatable to efficiently perform their operations as needed. The pie chart will be a bonus to providing a holistic view of finding animals that meet criteria such as “Water Rescue” which further their cause in organizing shelter animals to what they see fit.
